CMS like modular starter application project built with Laravel 8
Admin
Desember 28, 2020

Candil Code - Laravel Starter is a Laravel 8.x based simple starter project. It can be used to build all type of applications. Most of the commonly needed features like Authentication, Application Backend, Backup, Logviewer are available here. It is modular, so you can use this project as a base and build your own modules. You can use the same module in any of the Laravel Starter based projects. New features and functionalities are being added on a regular basis.

Custom Commands Laravel Starter
We have created a number of custom commands for the project. The commands are listed below with a brief about the use of it.

Clear All Cache

    composer clear-all


this is a shortcut command clear all cache including config, route and more

Code Style Fix

    composer fix-cs


apply the code style fix by this command.

Features Laravel Starter
The Laravel Starter comes with a number of features which are the most common in almost all the applications. It is a template project which means it is intended to build in a way that it can be used for other projects.

It is a modular application, and a number of modules are installed by default. It will be helpful to use it as a base for the future applications.

Admin feature and public views are completely separated as Backend and Frontend namespace.
Major feature are developed as Modules. Module like Posts, Comments, Tags are separated from the core features like User, Role, Permission.

The Laravel Starter comes with a number of features which are the most common in almost all the applications. It is a template project which means it is intended to build in a way that it can be used for other projects.

It is a modular application, and a number of modules are installed by default. It will be helpful to use it as a base for the future applications.

Admin feature and public views are completely separated as Backend and Frontend namespace.
Major feature are developed as Modules. Module like Posts, Comments, Tags are separated from the core features like User, Role, Permission
Core Features

    User Authentication
    Social Login

    Google
    Facebook
    Github
    Build in a way adding more is much easy now

    User Profile with Avatar

    Separate User Profile table

    Role-Permissions for Users
    Dynamic Menu System
    Language Switcher
    Localization enable across the porject
    Backend Theme

    Bootstrap 4, CoreUI
    Fontawesome 5

    Frontend Theme

    Bootstrap 4, Impact Design Kit
    Fontawesome 5

    Article Module

    Posts
    Categories
    Tags
    Comments
    wysiwyg editor
    File browser

    Application Settings
    External Libraries

    Bootstrap 4
    Fontawesome 5
    CoreUI
    Impact Design Kit
    Datatables
    Select2
    Date Time Picker

    Backup (Source, Files, Database as Zip)
    Log Viewer
    Notification

    Dashboard and details view

    RSS Feed

Installation Laravel Starter
Follow the steps mentioned below to install and run the project.

    Clone or download the repository
    Go to the project directory and run composer install
    Create .env file by copying the .env.example. You may use the command to do that cp .env.example .env
    Update the database name and credentials in .env file
    Run the command php artisan migrate --seed
    Link storage directory: php artisan storage:link
    You may create a virtualhost entry to access the application or run php artisan serve from the project root and visit http://127.0.0.1:8000

After creating the new permissions use the following commands to update cashed permissions.

php artisan cache:forget spatie.permission.cache

Icons
FontAwesome & CoreUI Icons, two different font icon library is installed for the Backend theme and only FontAwesome for the Frontend. For both of the cases we used the free version. You may install the pro version separately for your own project.

    FontAwesome - https://fontawesome.com/icons?d=gallery&m=free
    CoreUI Icons - https://icons.coreui.io/icons/